README.rst, before:

ARIA
====

|Build Status| |Appveyor Build Status| |License| |PyPI release| |Python Versions| |Wheel|
|Contributors| |Open Pull Requests| |Closed Pull Requests|


What is ARIA?
-------------

`ARIA <http://ariatosca.incubator.apache.org/>`__ is a an open-source,
`TOSCA <https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tosca/>`__-based, lightweight library and CLI for
orchestration and for consumption by projects building TOSCA-based solutions for resources and
services orchestration.

ARIA can be utilized by any organization that wants to implement TOSCA-based orchestration in its
solutions, whether a multi-cloud enterprise application, or an NFV or SDN solution for multiple
virtual infrastructure managers.

With ARIA, you can utilize TOSCA's cloud portability out-of-the-box, to develop, test and run your
applications, from template to deployment.

ARIA is an incubation project under the `Apache Software Foundation <https://www.apache.org/>`__.


Installation
------------

ARIA is `available on PyPI <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/apache-ariatosca>`__.

ARIA requires Python 2.6/2.7. Python 3 is currently not supported.

To install ARIA directly from PyPI (using a ``wheel``), use::

    pip install --upgrade pip setuptools
    pip install apache-ariatosca

To install ARIA from source, download the source tarball from
`PyPI <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/apache-ariatosca>`__, extract and ``cd`` into the extract dir,
and run::

    pip install --upgrade pip setuptools
    pip install .

| The source package comes along with relevant examples, documentation, ``requirements.txt`` (for
| installing specifically the frozen dependencies' versions with which ARIA was tested) and more.
|
| ARIA has additional optional dependencies. These are required for running operations over SSH.
| Below are instructions on how to install these dependencies, including required system
| dependencies per OS.
|
| Note: These dependencies may have varying licenses which may not be compatible with Apache license
| 2.0.
|

**Ubuntu/Debian** (tested on Ubuntu 14.04, Ubuntu 16.04)::

    apt-get install -y python-dev gcc libffi-dev libssl-dev
    pip install apache-ariatosca[ssh]

**CentOS/Fedora** (tested on CentOS 6.6, CentOS 7)::

    yum install -y python-devel gcc libffi-devel openssl-devel
    pip install apache-ariatosca[ssh]

**Archlinux**::

    pacman -Syu --noconfirm python2 gcc libffi openssl
    pip2 install apache-ariatosca[ssh]

**Windows** (tested on Windows 10)::

    # no additional system requirements are needed
    pip install apache-ariatosca[ssh]

**MacOS**::

    # TODO



To install ``pip``, either use your operating system's package management system, or run::

    wget http://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py
    python get-pip.py



Getting Started
---------------

This section will describe how to run a simple "Hello World" example.

First, provide ARIA with the ARIA "hello world" service-template and name it (e.g.
``my-service-template``)::

    aria service-templates store examples/hello-world/hello-world.yaml my-service-template

Now create a service based on this service-template and name it (e.g. ``my-service``)::

    aria services create my-service -t my-service-template

Finally, start an ``install`` workflow execution on ``my-service`` like so::

    aria executions start install -s my-service

You should now have a simple web-server running on your local machine. You can try visiting
``http://localhost:9090`` to view your deployed application.

To uninstall and clean your environment, follow these steps::

    aria executions start uninstall -s my-service
    aria services delete my-service
    aria service-templates delete my-service-template


Contribution
------------

You are welcome and encouraged to participate and contribute to the ARIA project.

Please see our guide to
`Contributing to ARIA
<https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/ARIATOSCA/Contributing+to+ARIA>`__.

Feel free to also provide feedback on the mailing lists (see `Resources <#user-content-resources>`__
section).


Resources
---------

- `ARIA homepage <http://ariatosca.incubator.apache.org/>`__
- `ARIA wiki <https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/AriaTosca>`__
-  `Issue tracker <https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ARIA>`__

- Dev mailing list: dev@ariatosca.incubator.apache.org
- User mailing list: user@ariatosca.incubator.apache.org

Subscribe by sending a mail to ``<group>-subscribe@ariatosca.incubator.apache.org`` (e.g.
``dev-subscribe@ariatosca.incubator.apache.org``). See information on how to subscribe to mailing
lists `here <https://www.apache.org/foundation/mailinglists.html>`__.

For past correspondence, see the
`dev mailing list archive <https://lists.apache.org/list.html?dev@ariatosca.apache.org>`__.


License
-------

ARIA is licensed under the
`Apache License 2.0 <https://github.com/apache/incubator-ariatosca/blob/master/LICENSE>`__.

.. |Build Status| image:: https://img.shields.io/travis/apache/incubator-ariatosca/master.svg
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/apache/incubator-ariatosca
.. |Appveyor Build Status| image:: https://img.shields.io/appveyor/ci/ApacheSoftwareFoundation/incubator-ariatosca/master.svg
   :target: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/ApacheSoftwareFoundation/incubator-ariatosca/history
.. |License| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/license/apache/incubator-ariatosca.svg
   :target: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.. |PyPI release| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/apache-ariatosca.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/apache-ariatosca
.. |Python Versions| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/apache-ariatosca.svg
.. |Wheel| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/wheel/apache-ariatosca.svg
.. |Contributors| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/apache/incubator-ariatosca.svg
.. |Open Pull Requests| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/apache/incubator-ariatosca.svg
   :target: https://github.com/apache/incubator-ariatosca/pulls
.. |Closed Pull Requests| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr-closed-raw/apache/incubator-ariatosca.svg
   :target: https://github.com/apache/incubator-ariatosca/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed

Code of Conduct
---------------

The ARIA TOSCA Project follows `The Apache Code of Conduct <https://www.apache.org/foundation/policies/conduct.html>`__.

Commit message:

ARIA-309: Add pointer to released artifact location to README

README.rst, after:

ARIA
====

|Build Status| |Appveyor Build Status| |License| |PyPI release| |Python Versions| |Wheel|
|Contributors| |Open Pull Requests| |Closed Pull Requests|


What is ARIA?
-------------

`ARIA <http://ariatosca.incubator.apache.org/>`__ is a an open-source,
`TOSCA <https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tosca/>`__-based, lightweight library and CLI for
orchestration and for consumption by projects building TOSCA-based solutions for resources and
services orchestration.

ARIA can be utilized by any organization that wants to implement TOSCA-based orchestration in its
solutions, whether a multi-cloud enterprise application, or an NFV or SDN solution for multiple
virtual infrastructure managers.

With ARIA, you can utilize TOSCA's cloud portability out-of-the-box, to develop, test and run your
applications, from template to deployment.

ARIA is an incubation project under the `Apache Software Foundation <https://www.apache.org/>`__.


Installation
------------

ARIA is `available on PyPI <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/apache-ariatosca>`__.

ARIA requires Python 2.6/2.7. Python 3 is currently not supported.

To install ARIA directly from PyPI (using a ``wheel``), use::

    pip install --upgrade pip setuptools
    pip install apache-ariatosca

To install ARIA from source, download the source tarball from
`PyPI <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/apache-ariatosca>`__, extract and ``cd`` into the extract dir,
and run::

    pip install --upgrade pip setuptools
    pip install .

| The source package comes along with relevant examples, documentation, ``requirements.txt`` (for
| installing specifically the frozen dependencies' versions with which ARIA was tested) and more.
|
| ARIA has additional optional dependencies. These are required for running operations over SSH.
| Below are instructions on how to install these dependencies, including required system
| dependencies per OS.
|
| Note: These dependencies may have varying licenses which may not be compatible with Apache license
| 2.0.
|

**Ubuntu/Debian** (tested on Ubuntu 14.04, Ubuntu 16.04)::

    apt-get install -y python-dev gcc libffi-dev libssl-dev
    pip install apache-ariatosca[ssh]

**CentOS/Fedora** (tested on CentOS 6.6, CentOS 7)::

    yum install -y python-devel gcc libffi-devel openssl-devel
    pip install apache-ariatosca[ssh]

**Archlinux**::

    pacman -Syu --noconfirm python2 gcc libffi openssl
    pip2 install apache-ariatosca[ssh]

**Windows** (tested on Windows 10)::

    # no additional system requirements are needed
    pip install apache-ariatosca[ssh]

**MacOS**::

    # TODO



To install ``pip``, either use your operating system's package management system, or run::

    wget http://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py
    python get-pip.py

Releases
--------

The AriaTosca project is released occasionally based on community consensus.  To find out 
when releases are scheduled, please attend the team's weekly backlog grooming meetings
or the Jira backlog scheduling. More information can be found `here 
<https://ariatosca.incubator.apache.org/community/>`__.  Official release artifacts
can be located `here <https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/dev/incubator/ariatosca/>`__.


Getting Started
---------------

This section will describe how to run a simple "Hello World" example.

First, provide ARIA with the ARIA "hello world" service-template and name it (e.g.
``my-service-template``)::

    aria service-templates store examples/hello-world/hello-world.yaml my-service-template

Now create a service based on this service-template and name it (e.g. ``my-service``)::

    aria services create my-service -t my-service-template

Finally, start an ``install`` workflow execution on ``my-service`` like so::

    aria executions start install -s my-service

You should now have a simple web-server running on your local machine. You can try visiting
``http://localhost:9090`` to view your deployed application.

To uninstall and clean your environment, follow these steps::

    aria executions start uninstall -s my-service
    aria services delete my-service
    aria service-templates delete my-service-template


Contribution
------------

You are welcome and encouraged to participate and contribute to the ARIA project.

Please see our guide to
`Contributing to ARIA
<https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/ARIATOSCA/Contributing+to+ARIA>`__.

Feel free to also provide feedback on the mailing lists (see `Resources <#user-content-resources>`__
section).


Resources
---------

- `ARIA homepage <http://ariatosca.incubator.apache.org/>`__
- `ARIA wiki <https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/AriaTosca>`__
-  `Issue tracker <https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ARIA>`__

- Dev mailing list: dev@ariatosca.incubator.apache.org
- User mailing list: user@ariatosca.incubator.apache.org

Subscribe by sending a mail to ``<group>-subscribe@ariatosca.incubator.apache.org`` (e.g.
``dev-subscribe@ariatosca.incubator.apache.org``). See information on how to subscribe to mailing
lists `here <https://www.apache.org/foundation/mailinglists.html>`__.

For past correspondence, see the
`dev mailing list archive <https://lists.apache.org/list.html?dev@ariatosca.apache.org>`__.


License
-------

ARIA is licensed under the
`Apache License 2.0 <https://github.com/apache/incubator-ariatosca/blob/master/LICENSE>`__.

.. |Build Status| image:: https://img.shields.io/travis/apache/incubator-ariatosca/master.svg
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/apache/incubator-ariatosca
.. |Appveyor Build Status| image:: https://img.shields.io/appveyor/ci/ApacheSoftwareFoundation/incubator-ariatosca/master.svg
   :target: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/ApacheSoftwareFoundation/incubator-ariatosca/history
.. |License| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/license/apache/incubator-ariatosca.svg
   :target: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.. |PyPI release| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/apache-ariatosca.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/apache-ariatosca
.. |Python Versions| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/apache-ariatosca.svg
.. |Wheel| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/wheel/apache-ariatosca.svg
.. |Contributors| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/apache/incubator-ariatosca.svg
.. |Open Pull Requests| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/apache/incubator-ariatosca.svg
   :target: https://github.com/apache/incubator-ariatosca/pulls
.. |Closed Pull Requests| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr-closed-raw/apache/incubator-ariatosca.svg
   :target: https://github.com/apache/incubator-ariatosca/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed

Code of Conduct
---------------

The ARIA TOSCA Project follows `The Apache Code of Conduct <https://www.apache.org/foundation/policies/conduct.html>`__.
